Hiring Foreign Domestic Helpers (FDHs)
You need to be a Hong Kong resident with a monthly household income of no less than HK$15,000 or assets of comparable amount to support the expenses for the entire (i.e. 2 years) contractual period.
You can recruit an FDH through an agency or directly via personal ads or referrals.
You must enter into a
Standard Employment Contract
as specified by the Director of Immigration and apply to the Immigration Department for an
employment visa
for the helper.
Wages: You should pay a salary that is no less than the Minimum Allowable Wage (MAW) announced by the Government and prevailing at the date of signing the employment contract for employing the FDH. MAW is currently HK$5,100 per month.
Accommodation and food: You must provide the helper with suitable accommodation and with reasonable privacy, free food (or food allowance in lieu, which is currently HK$1,236 per month) and free passage from the helper’s home country to Hong Kong and return to the home country on termination or expiry of the contract.
The above levels of MAW and food allowance are applicable to all contracts signed on or after 30 September 2025.
Insurance: As stipulated in the Employees’ Compensation Ordinance (Cap. 282), an employer must take out insurance policy to cover his/her liability both under the Ordinance and at common law for injury at work in respect of an employee.
Medical treatment: You are required to provide the helper with free medical treatment under the Standard Employment Contract when he/she is ill or suffers personal injury during the period of employment. You are therefore strongly advised to take out an insurance policy with full medical and hospitalisation coverage for the helper. You may also consider taking out a comprehensive insurance policy which provides medical and hospitalisation coverage and satisfies the requirement under the Employees’ Compensation Ordinance at the same time.
An FDH should only perform domestic duties for the employer's residence specified in the contract.
Restrictions on the duties of an FDH
: The employer should not require or allow the helper to carry out any work for any other person, otherwise, the helper and/or any aider and abettor will be liable to criminal prosecution.
Application for Special Permission for Performance of Motor Driving Duties by FDHs
As an employer, you must observe the statutory obligations under the Hong Kong laws.
FDHs are entitled to the same benefits and protection under the labour laws as their local counterparts. For details, please refer to
FAQs about labour legislation
and
Publications on employment of FDHs
by the Labour Department, and
A guide for FDHs and their employers
by the Equal Opportunities Commission.
Q&A on reporting FDHs' income for taxation
If you decide to terminate the employment contract of your FDH, you should notify the Immigration Department
through online submission or in writing
within seven days of the date of termination.
You may visit the dedicated webpage "
Online Services for Foreign Domestic Helpers
" set up by the Immigration Department to learn more about the working visa matter of foreign domestic helpers and visit the webpage "
I-RemindU
" to enrol the personalised notification service. For other details, please refer to
Guidebook for the Employment of Domestic Helpers from Abroad
and
FAQs on FDHs
.
Share:
More Guidebooks