[page 2]
Page
1 Introduction 2
2 Legislative aim, principles and spirit 3
3 Coverage of the Ordinance 5
4 Application of the Ordinance
A. How to count hours worked
- Time in attendance at a place of employment
- Travelling time
- Meal break
- On-call or standby time
- Other situations
B. Employer to pay the balance to employee whose
wages are less than minimum wage
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage
period
D. No contracting out 36
5 Employer to keep records of the total number of
hours worked by employee (where applicable)
Appendix 1 Exemption of specified student interns and work
experience students
Appendix 2 Enquiries 47
Note: For illustration purpose, figures are rounded to one decimal place in
examples involving non-integer calculations.
Table of Contents

[page 3]
1 Introduction
🔹 The Statutory Minimum Wage (SMW) rate is raised from $37.5 per
hour to $40 per hour with effect from 1 May 2023
. If 1 May 2023
falls within a wage period, the SMW rate of $40 applies to any hour
worked on or after 1 May 2023 in calculating the minimum wage for
that wage period.
🔹 We have endeavoured to include some relatively common examples
to cover different situations in this set of Reference Guidelines to
facilitate employers and employees in understanding the requirements
of the Minimum Wage Ordinance (MWO). We believe that these
examples already cover most of the situations in the computation of
minimum wage. Nonetheless, given diversity in mode of employment,
there is difficulty in listing out all situations exhaustively in the
Reference Guidelines. Employers and employees who wish to
enquire about their individual situation can call 2717 1771 (handled
by “1823”) which operates round-the-clock.
🔹 The interpretation of MWO (Cap. 608) should be based on its original
text. The full text of the Ordinance has been uploaded to the
Hong Kong e-Legislation of the Department of Justice website at
www.elegislation.gov.hk.
Revised April 2023
1 SMW took effect on 1 May 2011. The initial SMW rate was $28 per hour, and was raised
to $30, $32.5, $34.5 and $37.5 on 1 May 2013, 1 May 2015, 1 May 2017 and 1 May 2019
respectively.
$40

[page 4]
2 Legislative aim, principles and spirit
🔹 MWO establishes the SMW regime aimed at striking an appropriate
balance between forestalling excessively low wages and minimising
the loss of low-paid jobs while sustaining Hong Kong’s economic
growth and competitiveness.
🔹 SMW is expressed as an hourly rate. In essence, wages payable
to an employee in respect of any wage period, when averaged over
the total number of hours worked in the wage period, should be no
less than the SMW rate. The employment and wage payment mode
(i.e. employed and remunerated at monthly-rated, weekly-rated,
daily-rated, hourly-rated or piece-rated, etc.) formulated between
employers and employees in accordance with their employment
contracts and the Employment Ordinance (EO) need not be changed
with the implementation of SMW.
🔹 The major provisions of MWO (e.g. the definition of wages) are
aligned as closely as possible with those of EO to ensure consistency
and effective enforcement, avoid confusion to employers and
employees and minimise the compliance cost for employers.
🔹 Neither MWO nor EO prescribes that meal breaks and rest days
should be paid. Whether meal breaks and rest days are with pay
or otherwise are employment terms as agreed between employers
and employees. Whether meal breaks are hours worked and/or with
pay, whether rest days are with pay, wage period, wage calculation,
reckoning and payment arrangement of commission, etc. are relevant
in the computation of minimum wage. Where necessary, employers
and employees should seek consensus on the employment terms on
lawful, sensible and reasonable grounds through labour-management
communication and consultation. According to EO, employers
should not unilaterally vary the employment terms and conditions
of employees. The Labour Department (LD) stands ready to assist
employers and employees to resolve their problems and reach
consensus. If employees suspect that their employment rights and
benefits have been undermined, they could seek help from LD. LD
will actively follow up such cases. Any provision in the contract of
employment seeking to extinguish or reduce the employee’s SMW
entitlement shall be void under the law.

[page 5]
🔹 Employees are an enterprise’s valuable asset. We appeal to
employers to treat their employees well so as to maintain harmonious
labour relations. Employers should carefully assess the impact both
on themselves and on the employees in contemplating any change to
the employment terms. Sufficient communication between employers
and employees is necessary. Employees will always have a greater
commitment to work as well as a stronger sense of belonging when
employers respond positively and sincerely to their reasonable
requests. This will be beneficial to the operation and business of
the enterprise and ultimately achieve a win-win situation for both
employers and employees.
2 Legislative aim, principles and spirit

[page 6]
3 Coverage of the Ordinance
🔹 SMW applies to all employees, whether they are monthly-rated,
weekly-rated, daily-rated, hourly-rated, piece-rated, permanent,
casual, full-time, part-time or other employees, and regardless of
whether they are employed under a continuous contract
as defined
in EO, with the following exceptions :
📌 persons to whom EO does not apply
📌 live-in domestic workers
This refers to domestic workers (including domestic helpers,
carers, chauffeurs, gardeners, boat-boys or other personal
helpers) who dwell free of charge in their employing household,
irrespective of their sex, race or nationality.
Note :
The following persons are not live-in domestic workers
and SMW applies to them :
● domestic workers not dwelling free of charge in their
employing household
● live-in employees who are not domestic workers
📌 specified student interns as well as work experience students
during a period of exempt student employment ( Please refer to
Appendix 1 for details)
2 According to EO, an employee who has been employed continuously by the same
employer for four weeks or more, with at least 18 hours worked in each week is regarded
as being employed under a continuous contract.
3 EO does not apply to : (a) a family member who lives in the same dwelling as the
employer; (b) an employee as defined in the Contracts for Employment Outside Hong Kong
Ordinance; (c) a person serving under a crew agreement under the Merchant Shipping
(Seafarers) Ordinance, or on board a ship which is not registered in Hong Kong; and (d) an
apprentice whose contract of apprenticeship has been registered under the Apprenticeship
Ordinance. As for (d), while certain provisions of EO apply to registered apprentices, SMW
is not applicable.

[page 7]
Note :
Employees with disabilities
📎 Employees with disabilities are entitled to the same protection of SMW as
able-bodied employees. MWO provides a special arrangement for employees
with disabilities to opt to undergo productivity assessment at their choice to
determine whether they should be remunerated at no less than the SMW
rate or at a rate commensurate with their productivity. This strikes a balance
between providing wage protection to employees with disabilities and
safeguarding their employment opportunities. The right to invoke productivity
assessment is solely vested in the employees with disabilities, not their
employers. For employees with disabilities who do not opt to undergo
productivity assessment, their employers must pay them at not lower than
the SMW rate. For details of this special arrangement, please refer to the
Concise Guide to Productivity Assessment for Employees with Disabilities
under the Statutory Minimum Wage Regime.
Self-employed persons
📎 SMW does not apply to self-employed persons / contractors. For information
about the difference between an “employee” and a “self-employed person /
contractor”, please refer to the booklet Clarify Your Employment Status.
📎 If in essence there exists an employer-employee relationship, even though
the worker is called a contractor or self-employed person or has been labelled
as a self-employed person in the contract, the employer is still required to
fulfil his responsibilities under the relevant labour legislation by paying back
statutory benefits retroactively to the worker who is falsely labelled as a selfemployed person. The employer may also be criminally liable in respect of
the benefit items of relevant legislation.
📎 If both parties wish to sign a contract of self-employed person / contractor, or
before they consider changing status from an employee to a self-employed
person / contractor, both parties must cautiously assess the pros and cons
involved, including the substantial differentiation in the employment rights and
benefits under different scenarios of different identities, clearly calculating the
risk and do not make any decision without due care. An employer should not
unilaterally change the status of his employee to a self-employed person /
contractor without the consent of the employee. Otherwise, the employee may,
depending on the circumstances, lodge a claim for remedies against his employer
for unreasonable variation of the terms of the employment contract under EO.
4 In addition, if substantial and fundamental changes to the detriment of the employee have been
made to the contract of employment arising from the employer’s conduct without the employee’s
consent, the employee can claim for termination compensation from his employer on the ground of
constructive dismissal.
3 Coverage of the Ordinance

[page 8]
A
How to count hours worked
🔹 An employee is entitled to be paid wages in respect of any wage
period of not less than the minimum wage.
🔹 The minimum wage for a wage period is the amount derived by
multiplying the total number of hours (including any part of an hour)
worked by the employee in the wage period by the SMW rate.
🔹 For the purpose of computing minimum wage, hours worked include
any time when the employee is, in accordance with the contract of
employment or with the agreement or at the direction of the employer :
📌 in attendance at a place of employment, irrespective of whether
he is provided with work or training at that time; or
📌 travelling in connection with his employment, excluding travelling
(in either direction) between his place of residence and his place
of employment (other than a place of employment that is outside
Hong Kong and is not his usual place of employment).
🔹 A place of employment means any place at which the employee is,
in accordance with the contract of employment or with the agreement
or at the direction of the employer, in attendance for the purpose of
doing work or receiving training.

[page 9]
Time in attendance at a place of employment
Example 1 :
An employee works in the office from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and from
2:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. in accordance with the contract of employment.
He also works overtime from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. with the agreement
or at the direction of the employer. The time from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
and from 2:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. is hours worked for computing minimum
wage. (Note : As for whether meal break is hours worked for computing
minimum wage, please refer to the section on “Meal break” below.)
Example 2 :
With circumstances the same as Example 1 above, but for personal
reasons (e.g. to avoid busy traffic), the employee returns to the office at
8:30 a.m. As he is not, in accordance with the contract of employment
or with the agreement or at the direction of the employer, in attendance
in the office for the purpose of doing work, the office from 8:30 a.m. to
9:00 a.m. is not his place of employment as defined under MWO for the
purpose of computing minimum wage. Such time from 8:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
shall not be counted as hours worked for computing minimum wage.
Example 3 :
The working hours of an employee finish at 6:00 p.m. according to the
contract of employment. However, he stays in the office from 6:00 p.m.
to 6:15 p.m. for personal reasons, and is not, in accordance with the
contract of employment or with the agreement or at the direction of the
employer, in attendance in the office for the purpose of doing work.
Therefore, for the purpose of computing minimum wage, the office
from 6:00 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. is not his place of employment as defined
under MWO. As such, the time from 6:00 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. shall not be
counted as hours worked for computing minimum wage.
A. How to count hours worked

[page 10]
Example 4 :
At the direction of the employer, an employee works outside Hong Kong
(for instance, at the company’s factory in the Mainland). The employer
provides free accommodation and/or meals for the employee during the
period of stay. If the employee in a certain period of time during the stay
is not in attendance at a place of employment for the purpose of doing
work or receiving training in accordance with the contract of employment
or with the agreement or at the direction of the employer - such as his
sleeping time, personal recreation time - such time is not hours worked
for computing minimum wage.
Example 5 :
An employee attends a 3-hour training course at the direction of the
employer. Since the employee is, at the direction of the employer, in
attendance for the purpose of receiving training, these 3 hours are hours
worked for computing minimum wage.
Note :
● As illustrated in the above examples, whether a particular
place is a place of employment as defined under MWO for
computing minimum wage depends on whether the employee
is, in accordance with the contract of employment or with the
agreement or at the direction of the employer, in attendance at
the place for the purpose of doing work or receiving training.
This is a question of fact and must be determined by reference
to the facts and circumstances of individual cases.
● Should the employer and the employee have different
understanding on whether the employee is in attendance at a
place of employment during a certain period of time (e.g. during
the time beyond the working hours specified in the employment
contract) and whether the employee is in attendance with the
agreement or at the direction of the employer under various
circumstances, they should clarify between themselves as
soon as practicable in order to avoid dispute when computing
minimum wage.
A. How to count hours worked

[page 11]
Travelling time
🔹 Generally speaking, for computing minimum wage under MWO,
the travelling time between an employee’s place of residence and
his place of employment within Hong Kong is not hours worked,
irrespective of whether it is the usual place of employment.
Example 6 :
An employee works in a company in Hong Kong. The travelling time
between his place of residence and the place of employment is not hours
worked for computing minimum wage.
One day, this employee delivers documents from the company to a
client’s office, and then returns to the company. With regard to the
travelling time between his company and the client’s office when he is,
in accordance with the contract of employment or with the agreement
or at the direction of the employer, travelling in connection with his
employment, the time is also hours worked for computing minimum
wage.
Example 7 :
An employee works in the office in Hong Kong on Mondays, and in
the company’s factory in the Mainland from Tuesdays to Fridays. With
regard to the travelling time between his place of residence and the
office in Hong Kong, it is not hours worked for computing minimum wage.
Since the company’s factory in the Mainland is also his usual place of
employment, the time he takes to travel between his place of residence
and the company’s factory in the Mainland is generally not hours worked
for computing minimum wage.
A. How to count hours worked

[page 12]
Example 8 :
An employee works in a factory in Hong Kong. One day, the employer
assigns him to go to a client’s office outside Hong Kong which is not his
usual place of employment. The time he takes to travel, in accordance
with the contract of employment or with the agreement or at the direction
of the employer, between his place of residence and the client’s office
outside Hong Kong is hours worked for computing minimum wage.
Example 9 :
An employee is directed by the employer to travel from the office to a
training centre to attend a 2-hour training course. He is required to return
to the office to continue working after training. The travelling time to and
from his office and the training centre is hours worked for computing
minimum wage.
A. How to count hours worked

[page 13]
Meal break
🔹 When an employee during his meal break also falls under the
circumstances of hours worked (Please refer to 4 Application of
the Ordinance the section on A. How to count hours worked ) as
specified in MWO, such meal break is hours worked for computing
minimum wage. Hence, if an employee is, during his meal break, in
accordance with the employment contract or with the agreement or at
the direction of the employer, in attendance at a place of employment,
irrespective of whether he is provided with work or not, such time
should be included in the hours worked for computing minimum
wage (Example 10). On the contrary, meal break falling outside the
provisions on hours worked in MWO is not included in the hours
worked for computing minimum wage (Example 11).
🔹 Besides, if meal break is regarded as hours worked by the employee
according to his employment contract or agreement with the employer,
such time must also be taken into account in computing minimum
wage (Example 12). Although EO does not provide specific regulation
for meal break, after an employer and his employee have included
meal break as hours worked by the employee in accordance with their
employment contract or agreement, the employer shall not unilaterally
vary or remove such contractual terms or agreement concerning
hours worked. EO already accords protection to employees in this
respect.
A. How to count hours worked

[page 14]
Example 10 :
An employee has his meal break from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. At the
same time, he remains in attendance at his post for the purpose of
doing work in accordance with the contract of employment or with the
agreement or at the direction of the employer. Such meal break is hours
worked for computing minimum wage.
Example 11 :
An employee has his meal break from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. For
personal reasons, he takes his meal in the workshop. Although he is in
the workshop during the period from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m., he is not, in
accordance with the contract of employment or with the agreement or
at the direction of the employer, in attendance in the workshop for the
purpose of doing work or receiving training. The workshop from 1:00 p.m.
to 2:00 p.m. is not his place of employment as defined under MWO, and
the hours worked for computing minimum wage shall not count such
meal break.
Example 12 :
With circumstances the same as Example 11 above, whereas meal
break is regarded as hours worked under the employment contract or
agreement between the employer and the employee, the time from 1:00 p.m.
to 2:00 p.m. shall be counted in computing minimum wage.
A. How to count hours worked

[page 15]
On-call or standby time
🔹 On-call or standby arrangements depend on the terms in the
contract of employment or the agreement between the employer
and the employee. Thus, there is a diversity of on-call or standby
arrangements for different industries and establishments.
🔹 According to MWO, if an employee while being on-call or standby
is in attendance at a place of employment in accordance with the
contract of employment or with the agreement or at the direction of the
employer, such on-call or standby time is hours worked for computing
minimum wage. On the other hand, if he is not in attendance at a
place of employment during the on-call or standby time, such time is
not hours worked for computing minimum wage.
🔹 The employer and the employee may also agree to reckon on-call
or standby time as the hours worked by the employee for computing
minimum wage. Should on-call or standby time be regarded as
hours worked by the employee under his employment contract or
agreement with the employer, such on-call or standby time should
also be counted in computing minimum wage. If the employer and
the employee have included on-call or standby time as hours worked
by the employee in accordance with their employment contract or
agreement, the employer shall not unilaterally vary or remove such
contractual terms or agreement concerning hours worked.
Example 13 :
An employee’s working hours are from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. According
to the contract of employment, he and his colleagues are required to
take turns for attendance at the workplace from 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
for on-call duties once a week in order to provide emergency services
upon clients’ calls. During the on-call time, he is not allowed to leave the
workplace without permission. Since the employee in this example is, in
accordance with the contract of employment, in attendance at the place
of employment while being on-call, the on-call time from 7:00 p.m. to
10:00 p.m. is hours worked for computing minimum wage.
A. How to count hours worked

[page 16]
Other situations
🔹 In addition to the more common patterns of working hours, different
operational and work requirements may exist in various industries
or establishments to cater for their sector-specific and operational
needs. The job requirements also vary tremendously according
to the multifarious terms of employment and agreements between
employers and employees in different industries and scenarios.
🔹 Hence, MWO does not seek to provide an exhaustive list of the
circumstances of hours worked for the purpose of computing
minimum wage. Apart from MWO, if the time in question is regarded
as hours worked by the employee under the employment contract
or agreement with the employer, such time should be included in
computing minimum wage.
A. How to count hours worked

[page 17]
B
Employer to pay the balance to employee
whose wages are less than minimum wage
🔹 An employee is entitled to be paid wages in respect of any wage
period of not less than the minimum wage. The minimum wage for a
wage period is the amount derived by multiplying the total number of
hours (including any part of an hour actually worked) worked by the
employee in the wage period by the SMW rate.
Minimum wage ═
Total number of
hours worked by the
employee in the
wage period
X
SMW rate
(i.e. $40 per hour with
effect from 1 May 2023)
Example 14 :
The total number of hours worked by an employee in a wage period,
including overtime of eight hours and 45 minutes, is 208 hours and
45 minutes (i.e. 208.75 hours). The SMW rate is $40 per hour. The
minimum wage of the employee according to the total number of hours
worked for that wage period shall be:
208.75 hours (total number of hours worked) X $40 (SMW rate)
═ $8,350 (minimum wage)
B. Employer to pay the balance to employee
whose wages are less than minimum wage

[page 18]
🔹 If the wages payable to the employee in respect of the wage
period are less than the minimum wage, he is entitled to be paid
the difference (i.e. “ additional remuneration ”). The contract of
employment of the employee must be taken to provide that the
employee is entitled to additional remuneration in respect of that wage
period. This additional remuneration also applies, among others, to
the calculation of the following :
📌 wages or any other sum payable under EO
📌 ex gratia payment under the Protection of Wages on Insolvency
Ordinance
📌 mandatory contributions under the Mandatory Provident Fund
Schemes Ordinance
📌 monthly earnings of the employee under the Employees’
Compensation Ordinance or the Occupational Deafness
(Compensation) Ordinance
🔹 The definition of “wage period” in MWO is aligned with that under
EO. Unless the contrary is proved, a wage period is one month. No
matter how the wage of an employee is calculated (e.g. monthlyrated, weekly-rated, daily-rated, hourly-rated, piece-rated, etc.), the
minimum wage is still derived by multiplying the total number of hours
worked in a wage period by the SMW rate. Taking a piece-rated
employee as an example, with his total number of hours worked in a
wage period multiplied by the SMW rate, this amount is his minimum
wage for that wage period.
🔹 Minimum wage is calculated with reference to the whole wage period.
The basic principle is that hourly wages payable to an employee in
respect of any wage period should be no less than the SMW rate on
average for the total number of hours worked in the wage period.
B. Employer to pay the balance to employee
whose wages are less than minimum wage

[page 19]
🔹 Failure to pay minimum wage amounts to a breach of the wage
provisions under EO. According to EO, an employer who wilfully
and without reasonable excuse fails to pay wages to an employee
when it becomes due is liable to prosecution and, upon conviction,
to a fine of $350,000 and to imprisonment for three years. Where a
wage offence committed by a body corporate is proved to have been
committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other
similar officer of the body corporate, such person shall be guilty of the
like offence and, upon conviction, is liable to the same penalty.
🔹 The Labour Tribunal and the Minor Employment Claims Adjudication
Board
have jurisdiction to deal with claims for sums of money arising
from a breach of SMW.
🔹 Since statutory entitlements under EO (e.g. end of year payment,
holiday pay, annual leave pay, sickness allowance, maternity
leave pay, paternity leave pay, severance payment, long service
payment, wages in lieu of notice, etc.) are calculated according to
the definition of wages, the amount of these statutory entitlements
should also take into account the additional remuneration (where
applicable). If these statutory entitlements under EO are calculated
and paid on the basis of wages less than the minimum wage, it
would amount to under-payment of such statutory entitlements.
For offences and penalties, please refer to A Concise Guide to the
Employment Ordinance . The Guide can be downloaded from LD’s
homepage (http://www.labour.gov.hk) or obtained from the offices of
the Labour Relations Division of LD.
🔹 As SMW is part of wages, principal contractors and superior subcontractors engaged in construction works must, in accordance with
EO, bear the liability of the first two months’ unpaid wages of their
sub-contractors’ employees if their sub-contractors fail to pay SMW in
accordance with MWO.
5 The Minor Employment Claims Adjudication Board (the Board) adjudicates employment
claims involving not more than 10 claimants for a sum of money not exceeding $15,000 per
claimant. Employment claims falling outside the jurisdiction of the Board are heard by the
Labour Tribunal.
B. Employer to pay the balance to employee
whose wages are less than minimum wage

[page 20]
How to determine
🔹 In determining whether wages for the employee meet
the minimum wage, the following two factors should be
considered :
(1) What is the minimum wage according to the total number of
hours worked for the employee for the wage period?
(i.e. total number of hours worked X SMW rate)
(2) What is the wages payable to the employee in respect of the
wage period?
(Please refer to the following section C. Wages payable to
employee in respect of wage period)
If (2) is not less than (1) ➡ the minimum wage requirement is met
If (2) is less than (1) ➡ employer has to pay additional
remuneration
Additional remuneration ═ Minimum wage ─ Wages payable
B. Employer to pay the balance to employee
whose wages are less than minimum wage

[page 21]
C
Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period
🔹 The definition of wages for SMW is aligned closely with that under EO.
Unless otherwise specified in EO, “wages” means all remuneration,
earnings, allowances (including travelling allowances, attendance
allowances, commission, overtime pay), tips and service charges
,
however designated or calculated, capable of being expressed in
terms of money, payable to an employee in respect of work done or to
be done, subject to certain exclusions
.
🔹 For the purpose of computing minimum wage, MWO sets out whether
certain sums should be counted as wages payable to an employee
in respect of a wage period in specific situations in order to
determine whether the wages meet the minimum wage requirement,
as explained below.
(1) Payment made to an employee for any time that is not hours worked
🔹 Since the calculation of minimum wage excludes the time that is not
hours worked, payment made to the employee for any time that is
not hours worked (e.g. rest day pay, holiday pay, annual leave pay,
maternity leave pay, paternity leave pay, sickness allowance, etc.)
must not be counted as part of the wages payable to the employee in
the calculation of minimum wage.
6 According to EO, tips and service charges, in relation to wages, means sums of money
received, directly or indirectly, by an employee in the course of and in connection with his
employment which are –
▲ paid or derived from payments made by persons other than the employer; and
▲ recognised by the employer as part of the employee’s wages.
7 According to EO, the following items are not wages :
▲ the value of any accommodation, education, food, fuel, water, light or medical care
provided by the employer;
▲ employer’s contribution to any retirement scheme;
▲ commission, attendance allowance or attendance bonus which is of a gratuitous nature or
is payable only at the discretion of the employer;
▲ non-recurrent travelling allowance or the value of any travelling concession or travelling
allowance for actual expenses incurred by the employment;
▲ any sum payable to the employee to defray special expenses incurred by him by the
nature of his employment;
▲ end of year payment, or annual bonus which is of a gratuitous nature or is payable only at
the discretion of the employer; and
▲ gratuity payable on completion or termination of a contract of employment.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 22]
Example 15 :
Assuming
🔹 an employee with monthly salary of $11,000 has worked 24 days in a
wage period of 30 days with the total number of hours worked being
204 hours
🔹 in this wage period, payments made to the employee for time that is
not hours worked include rest day pay for 4 days, statutory holiday
pay for 1 day and annual leave pay for 1 day
Calculation
(1) Minimum wage according to the total number of hours worked for this
month :
$8,160 (204 hours X $40)
(2) Wages payable to the employee in respect of this month :
$8,810.1 ($11,000 ─ rest day pay of $1,466.7
─ statutory holiday pay
of $361.6
─ annual leave pay of $361.6
)
➡ Since (2) is not less than (1), the monthly salary of $11,000 of the
employee has met the minimum wage requirement.
8 The SMW rate is $40 per hour with effect from 1 May 2023.
9 Whether rest days are with or without pay and the calculation method of rest day pay are
employment terms in accordance with the employment contract or agreement between
employers and employees. In the present example, it is assumed that rest day pay is the
payment made to the employee for time that is not hours worked and rest day pay for
4 days is $1,466.7 (i.e. $11,000 ÷ 30 days X 4 rest days). The amount of rest day pay may
vary if the number of calendar days or the number of rest days in the relevant month or
its calculation method as agreed between employers and employees is different from this
example.
10 Calculating 1 day statutory holiday pay/1 day annual leave pay on the basis of the
12-month average wages assuming that the monthly salary was $11,000 in the past
12 months without any periods or wages to be disregarded :
$11,000X 12 - $0 = $361.6365 - 0
For details about calculating statutory entitlements on the basis of the 12-month average
wages, please refer to A Concise Guide to the Employment Ordinance.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 23]
Examples on monthly-rated, daily-rated and piece-rated employees
Example 16 (monthly-rated) :
Assuming
🔹 the following employment terms according to the contract of
employment :
📌 remuneration : $10,200 per month with paid rest days on
Sundays
📌 working hours :
Monday to Saturday – 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. including 1-hour
paid meal break which is regarded as hours worked as agreed
between the employer and the employee. The employee is
entitled to an overtime pay of $60 per hour.
🔹 total number of hours worked in this month : 220 hours (including 4 hours
of overtime)
Calculation
(1) Minimum wage according to the total number of hours worked for this
month :
$8,800 (220 hours X $40)
(2) Wages payable to the employee in respect of this month :
$9,123.9 ($10,200 + overtime pay (4 X $60) ─ rest day pay of
$1,316.1
)
➡ Since (2) is not less than (1), the monthly salary together with
overtime pay of the employee, totaling $10,440, has met the
minimum wage requirement.
11 Assumptions : There are 31 days (including 4 Sundays) in this month and the actual total
number of hours worked is 220 hours (27 days from Monday to Saturday X 8 hours per
day, and 4 hours’ overtime). In this example, as meal break is regarded as working hours
of the employee in accordance with the contract of employment or agreement with the
employer, it is included in computing minimum wage.
12 Assumptions : Rest day pay is the payment made to the employee for time that is not
hours worked. Rest day pay for the 4 Sundays is $10,200 ÷ 31 days X 4 days = $1,316.1.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 24]
Example 17 (monthly-rated) :
Assuming
🔹 the following employment terms according to the contract of
employment :
📌 remuneration : $9,200 per month with paid rest days on Sundays
📌 working hours :
Monday to Friday – 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. excluding 1-hour
meal break which is regarded as paid according to the wage
calculation method all along adopted by the employer and the
employee; Saturday – 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. (same daily wages
for Monday to Saturday)
🔹 total number of hours worked in this month : 170 hours
Calculation
(1) Minimum wage according to the total number of hours worked for this
month :
$6,800 (170 hours X $40)
(2) Wages payable to the employee in respect of this month :
$7,130 ($9,200 ─ rest day pay of $1,226.7
─ meal break pay of
$843.3
)
➡ Since (2) is not less than (1), the monthly salary of $9,200 of the
employee has met the minimum wage requirement.
13 Assumptions : There are 30 days (including 4 Saturdays and 4 Sundays) in this month
and the actual total number of hours worked is 170 hours (22 days from Monday to Friday
X 7 hours per day + 4 Saturdays X 4 hours per day).
14 Assumptions : Rest day pay is the payment made to the employee for time that is not
hours worked. Rest day pay for the 4 Sundays is : $9,200 ÷ 30 days X 4 days = $1,226.7.
15 Whether meal breaks are with or without pay and the calculation method of meal break pay
are employment terms in accordance with the employment contract or agreement between
employers and employees. In the present example, it is assumed that there are 30 days in
the month. Meal break pay is the payment made to the employee for time that is not hours
worked. With the same hourly wages for working hours and meal break in the 22 days
from Monday to Friday, meal break pay is $843.3 (i.e. $9,200 ÷ 30 days ÷ 8 hours X 1 hour
X 22 meal breaks). The amount of meal break pay may vary if the number of calendar
days or the number of working days in the relevant month or its calculation method as
agreed between employers and employees is different from this example.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 25]
Example 18 (daily-rated) :
Assuming
🔹 the following employment terms according to the contract of
employment :
📌 remuneration : $360 per day, wage period is a calendar month,
with no-pay rest days on Sundays
📌 working hours :
Monday to Saturday – 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. including 1-hour
paid meal break
🔹 total number of hours worked in this month : 216 hours
Calculation
(1) Minimum wage according to the total number of hours worked for this
month :
$8,640 (216 hours X $40)
(2) Wages payable to the employee in respect of this month :
$9,720 (27 days X $360 per day)
➡ Since (2) is not less than (1), the remuneration of $9,720 of the
employee has met the minimum wage requirement.
16 Assumptions : There are 31 days (including 4 Sundays) in this month and the actual total
number of hours worked is 216 hours (27 days from Monday to Saturday X 8 hours per
day). In this example, as meal break is regarded as working hours of the employee in
accordance with the contract of employment or agreement with the employer, it is included
in computing minimum wage.
17 As the employee in this example is not entitled to payment for time that is not hours
worked, no deduction from his remuneration is required in computing his wages payable
in respect of that month.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 26]
Example 19 (piece-rated) :
Assuming
🔹 the following employment terms according to the contract of
employment :
📌 remuneration : piece-rated at $100 per piece, with no-pay meal
break; wage period is a calendar month; total remuneration for
this month is $8,500 ($100 X 85pieces)
📌 total number of hours worked in this month : 220 hours
Calculation
(1) Minimum wage according to the total number of hours worked for this
month :
$8,800 (220 hours X $40)
(2) Wages payable to the employee in respect of this month : $8,500
➡ Since (2) is less than (1), apart from paying wages of $8,500, the
employer has to pay additional remuneration of $300 ($8,800 ─
$8,500), i.e. $8,800 ($8,500 + $300) in total, to meet the minimum
wage requirement.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 27]
Example 20 (monthly-rated) :
Assuming
🔹 the following employment terms according to the contract of
employment :
📌 remuneration : $10,600 per month with 1 paid rest day per week
📌 working hours :
6 days per week with 9 working hours per day including 1-hour
paid meal break which is regarded as hours worked as agreed
between the employer and the employee
🔹 total number of hours worked in this month : 243 hours
Calculation
(1) Minimum wage according to the total number of hours worked for this
month :
$9,720 (243 hours X $40)
(2) Wages payable to the employee in respect of this month :
$9,232.3 ($10,600 X rest day pay of $1,367.7
)
➡ Since (2) is less than (1), apart from paying monthly salary of $10,600,
the employer has to pay additional remuneration of $487.7 ($9,720
─ $9,232.3), i.e. $ 11,087.7 ($10,600 + $487.7) in total, to meet the
minimum wage requirement.
18 Assumptions : There are 31 days (including 4 rest days) in this month and the actual total
number of hours worked is 243 hours (27 days X 9 hours per day). In this example, as
meal break is regarded as working hours of the employee in accordance with the contract
of employment or agreement with the employer, it is included in computing minimum
wage.
19 Assumptions : Rest day pay is the payment made to the employee for time that is not
hours worked. Rest day pay for 4 days is : $10,600 ÷ 31 days X 4 days = $1,367.7.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 28]
Example 21 (monthly-rated) :
Assuming
🔹 the following employment terms according to the contract of
employment :
📌 remuneration : $8,100 per month with no-pay rest days on
Sundays
📌 working hours :
6 days per week with 7 working hours per day, excluding a 1-hour
no-pay meal break daily
🔹 total number of hours worked in this month : 189 hours
Calculation
(1) Minimum wage according to the total number of hours worked for this
month :
$7,560 (189 hours X $40)
(2) Wages payable to the employee in respect of this month : $8,100
➡ Since (2) is not less than (1), the monthly salary of $8,100 of the
employee has met the minimum wage requirement.
20 Assumptions : There are 31 days (including 4 Sundays) in this month and the actual total
number of hours worked is 189 hours (27 days from Monday to Saturday X 7 hours per
day). In Examples 21 and 22, as there is no agreement between the employer and the
employee that meal break is the employee’s working hours and the employee’s meal
break does not fall under the circumstances of hours worked as specified in the Minimum
Wage Ordinance, it is not necessary to include such meal break in computing minimum
wage (Please refer to the section on “Meal break” above).
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 29]
Example 22 (monthly-rated) :
Assuming
🔹 the following employment terms according to the contract of
employment :
📌 remuneration : $9,000 per month with 1 no-pay rest day per
week
📌 working hours :
6 days per week with 9 working hours per day, excluding a 1-hour
no-pay meal break daily
🔹 total number of hours worked in this month : 243 hours
Calculation
(1) Minimum wage according to the total number of hours worked for this
month :
$ 9,720 (243 hours X $40)
(2) Wages payable to the employee in respect of this month : $9,000
➡ Since (2) is less than (1), apart from paying monthly salary of $9,000,
the employer has to pay additional remuneration of $720 ($9,720 ─
$9,000), i.e. $9,720 ($9,000 + $720) in total, to meet the minimum
wage requirement.
21 Assumptions : There are 31 days (including 4 rest days) in this month and the actual total
number of hours worked is 243 hours (27 days X 9 hours per day).
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 30]
(2) Deductions from wages
🔹 Deductions from the wages of an employee made under the specified
provisions of EO in respect of any wage period must be counted
as part of the wages payable in respect of that wage period. These
specified provisions refer to section 25(3) and section 32(2)(b), (c), (d),
(e), (f), (g), (ga), (h) and (i) of EO. For these provisions, please refer
to the text of EO and A Concise Guide to the Employment Ordinance.
There are some examples of application below.
Example 23 :
An employee has damaged the goods of the employer by neglect or
default. The employer deducts $100, equivalent to the value of the
damage, from the wages of this employee in respect of January in
accordance with EO.
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, this deducted amount of $100 is
counted as wages payable in respect of January.
Example 24 :
An employer has made a loan to an employee. With the employee’s
written consent, the employer deducts $200 from the wages of
this employee in respect of February for the recovery of the loan in
accordance with EO.
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, this deducted amount of $200 is
counted as wages payable in respect of February.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 31]
Example 25 :
An employer deducts $500 from an employee’s wages in respect of May
to make contributions to the Mandatory Provident Fund on behalf of the
employee (i.e. employee’s contributions for Mandatory Provident Fund).
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, this deducted amount of $500 is
counted as wages payable in respect of May.
Example 26 :
An employer deducts $400 from an employee’s wages in respect of April
for the recovery of an over-payment of wages made to the employee in
the wage period of March in accordance with EO.
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, this amount of $400 is counted as
wages payable in respect of April, not as wages payable in respect
of March.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 32]
(3) Advance or over-payment of wages
🔹 An advance or over-payment of wages made to an employee in any
wage period must not be counted as part of the wages payable in
respect of that wage period.
Example 27 :
In May, an employer has made an advance payment of wages of $500 to
an employee from his wages payable in respect of June. The employer
subsequently deducts such amount from the employee’s wages payable
in respect of June in accordance with EO.
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, this amount of $500 is counted as
wages payable in respect of June, not as wages payable in respect
of May.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 33]
(4) Payment of arrears of wages in respect of an earlier wage period
🔹 A payment of arrears of wages in respect of an earlier wage period
made to an employee in any wage period must not be counted as
part of the wages payable in respect of the wage period in which it is
paid.
Example 28 :
An employer has defaulted payment of wages of $600 in respect of July
to an employee, and pays such arrears of wages in the wage period of
August.
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, this amount of $600 is counted as
wages payable in respect of July, not as wages payable in respect of
August.
22 According to EO, an employer who wilfully and without reasonable excuse fails to pay
wages to an employee when it becomes due is liable to prosecution and, upon conviction,
to a fine of $350,000 and to imprisonment for three years.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 34]
(5) Counting of commission
🔹 According to EO, the definition of wages includes commission (except
commission which is of a gratuitous nature or which is payable only
at the discretion of the employer). Hence, other than commission
which is gratuitous or payable only at the discretion of the employer,
commission is wages and must be paid in accordance with the
provisions of EO. Subject to the provisions of other legislation,
employers and employees may agree on how commission is
calculated and payable in their employment contracts.
Commission payable according to the contract of employment
🔹 In determining whether the wages of an employee meet the minimum
wage requirement, commission payable under the contract of
employment is counted as wages payable in respect of the wage
period as specified in the employment contract (no matter the
employer has paid it or not when it has been due
) (Example 29).
If commission is payable in respect of a number of wage periods
according to the contract of employment, in determining whether
the wages of an employee meet the minimum wage requirement,
commission is counted as wages payable in respect of the
corresponding wage period as provided in the contract of employment
(Example 30).
Commission paid according to MWO
🔹 In addition, given the unique nature of commission, MWO sets out
the following provision for employers and employees to apply in the
counting of commission as wages payable :
For the purpose of computing minimum wage, any commission paid
📌 with the prior agreement of the employee
📌 at any time after the first 7 days of a wage period but before the
end of the 7
th
day immediately after that wage period
must be counted as part of the wages payable in respect of that
wage period irrespective of when the work is done or the commission
is otherwise payable under the contract of employment.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 35]
Hence, in determining whether the wages of an employee meet
the minimum wage requirement, if there is prior agreement of
the employee, commission can be counted as part of the wages
payable in respect of a wage period according to the timing when
the commission is paid (Examples 31 and 32). Without the prior
agreement of the employee, the above provision is not applicable. In
applying the provision, employers have to comply with the provisions
on wage payment and deductions under EO. Please refer to A
Concise Guide to the Employment Ordinance for details.
Example 29 :
An employee is entitled to a basic salary plus commission according to
the contract of employment. His wage period is each calendar month.
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, wages payable in respect of each
month include the basic salary and commission, no matter whether
the employer has paid it or not.
Example 30 :
An employee is entitled to a basic salary plus commission according to
the contract of employment. His wage period is each calendar month.
According to the contract of employment, commission is payable in
respect of a number of wage periods.
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, wages payable in respect of each
month include the basic salary as well as the commission payable in
respect of the corresponding month, no matter whether the employer
has paid it or not.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 36]
Example 31 :
An employer pays an employee commission of $1,000 (which is originally
payable in respect of the wage period of March) on 31 January with the
prior agreement of the employee.
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, this commission of $1,000 is counted
as wages payable in respect of January
, not as wages payable in
respect of March.
Example 32 :
An employer pays an employee commission of $2,000 and $3,000
on 8 April and 7 June respectively with the prior agreement of the
employee. The commission is originally payable in respect of the wage
period of July.
➡ In determining whether the wages of this employee meet the
minimum wage requirement, the commission of $2,000 is counted
as wages payable in respect of April
and the commission of $3,000
is counted as wages payable in respect of May
, both not being
counted as wages payable in respect of July.
23 Being paid in the period from 8 January to 7 February, the commission is counted as
wages payable in respect of January.
24 Being paid in the period from 8 April to 7 May, the commission is counted as wages
payable in respect of April.
25 Being paid in the period from 8 May to 7 June, the commission is counted as wages
payable in respect of May.
C. Wages payable to employee in respect of wage period

[page 37]
D
No contracting out
🔹 Any provision of a contract of employment that purports to extinguish
or reduce any right, benefit or protection conferred on the employee
by MWO shall be void. In other words, any agreement made under
the employment contract between an employer and an employee
cannot reduce the latter’s entitlement to SMW.
🔹 Same as EO, a contract of employment is an agreement on the
employment conditions made between an employer and an employee.
The agreement can be made orally or in writing and it includes both
express and implied terms.
D. No contracting out

[page 38]
5 Employer to keep records of the total number
of hours worked by employee (where applicable)
🔹 The wage and employment records kept by an employer under EO
should include the total number of hours (including any part of an
hour)
worked by the employee in a wage period if :
📌 SMW applies to the employee (Please refer to 3 Coverage of
the Ordinance above); and
📌 wages payable in respect of that wage period (Please refer
to 4 Application of the Ordinance (the section on C. Wages
payable to employee in respect of wage period ) above) are
less than $16,300 per month27.
Therefore, when wages payable to an employee in respect of a wage
period are at $16,300
or above per month, the wage and employment
records kept by an employer according to EO are not required to include
the total number of hours worked by the employee in that wage period.
Note :
The definition of wages for the monthly monetary cap ($16,300
)
in exempting employers from the requirement to keep records of
the total number of hours worked by employees is the same as
that in MWO. Payment made to the employee in a wage period
for any time that is not hours worked (e.g. rest day pay, holiday
pay, annual leave pay, maternity leave pay, paternity leave pay,
sickness allowance, etc.) should not be counted as part of the
wages payable in respect of the wage period. Therefore, in
determining whether the wages payable to an employee in respect
of a wage period are not less than the monthly monetary cap,
these payments, where applicable, should not be included. In
addition, MWO also sets out whether some other sums should
be counted as wages payable in respect of a wage period in
order to determine whether the wages meet the minimum wage
requirement. For details, please refer to 4 Application of the
Ordinance (the section on C. Wages payable to employee in
respect of wage period) above.
26 This does not include hours worked before the commencement date of SMW (i.e. 1 May
2011).
27 With effect from 1 May 2023, the monetary cap is increased from $15,300 to $16,300 per
month.

[page 39]
Example 33 :
Assuming the following employment terms according to the contract of
employment :
An employee’s wage period is each calendar month and he is entitled to
a monthly salary of $17,300 with paid rest days. In the wage period of
May, payments made to the employee for time that is not hours worked
in the wage period are rest day pay for 4 days and statutory holiday pay
for 1 day. Whether the wages payable meet the monthly monetary cap is
calculated as follows :
monthly salary of $17,300 ─ rest day pay of $2,232.3
─ statutory
holiday pay of $568.8
= $14,498.9
➡ Since the amount calculated is less than the monthly monetary cap
of $16,300
, the employer must keep records of the total number of
hours worked by the employee in that wage period.
28 Assumptions : Rest day pay is the payment made to the employee for time that is not
hours worked. Rest day pay for 4 days is : $17,300 ÷ 31 days X 4 days = $2,232.3.
29 Calculating statutory holiday pay for 1 day on the basis of the 12-month average wages
assuming that the monthly salary was $17,300 in the past 12 months without any periods
or wages to be disregarded :
$17,300 X 12 – $0
= $568.8
365 - 0
For details about calculating statutory entitlements on the basis of the 12-month average
wages, please refer to A Concise Guide to the Employment Ordinance.
5 Employer to keep records of the total number of hours worked by employee (where applicable)

[page 40]
Example 34 :
Assuming the following employment terms according to the contract of
employment :
An employee’s wage period is each calendar month and he is entitled to
a monthly salary of $17,300 with no-pay rest days. In the wage period
of May, payment made to the employee for time that is not hours worked
in the wage period is statutory holiday pay for 1 day. Whether the wages
payable meet the monthly monetary cap is calculated as follows :
monthly salary of $17,300 ─ statutory holiday pay of $663.3
=
$16,636.7
➡ Since the amount calculated is not less than the monthly monetary
cap of $16,300
, the wage and employment records are not required
to include the total number of hours worked in that wage period.
🔹 If the wage period of an employee is not a calendar month, the
monetary cap of $16,300
per month on keeping records of the
total number of hours worked is calculated on a proportional basis
(Examples 35 and 36).
🔹 Neither EO nor MWO specifies the form of recording the total number of
hours worked. Officers of the Labour Department may inspect the wage
and employment records and require the total number of hours worked
and the following particulars in the wage and employment records (which
are set out in EO) to be produced in a single document :
📌 name and identity card number of the employee
📌 wage period
📌 wages paid in respect of each wage period
30 Calculating statutory holiday pay for 1 day on the basis of the 12-month average wages
assuming that the monthly salary was $17,300 in the past 12 months without any periods
or wages to be disregarded except no-pay rest days :
$17,300 X 12 – $0
= $663.3
365 - 52
For details about calculating statutory entitlements on the basis of the 12-month average
wages, please refer to A Concise Guide to the Employment Ordinance.
5 Employer to keep records of the total number of hours worked by employee (where applicable)

[page 41]
📌 periods of annual leave, sick leave, maternity leave, paternity
leave and holidays entitled and taken, together with details of
payments made in respect of such periods
🔹 While the employer is not required to keep the records of the total
number of hours worked by the employee when wages payable in
respect of a wage period are at $16,300
or above per month , it is
pertinent to note that the employee is still entitled to be paid wages in
respect of that wage period of not less than the minimum wage.
Example 35 :
The wage period of an employee is half-monthly, lasting from the
st
day to the 15
th
day and from the 16
th
day to the last day of a month.
Taking the two wage periods in August as an example, the monetary cap
applicable to this employee for the records of the total number of hours
worked is calculated proportionally as follows –
(a) Wage period from 1 to 15 August :
$16,300 X 15 days ÷ 31 days (i.e. the ratio that the period 1 to 15
August bears to August) = $7,887.1
➡ If wages payable in respect of the above wage period are at $7,887.1
or above, the wage and employment records are not required to
include the total number of hours worked in that wage period.
(b) Wage period from 16 to 31 August :
$16,300 X 16 days ÷ 31 days (i.e. the ratio that the period 16 to 31
August bears to August) = $8,412.9
➡ If wages payable in respect of the above wage period are at $8,412.9
or above, the wage and employment records are not required to
include the total number of hours worked in that wage period.
5 Employer to keep records of the total number of hours worked by employee (where applicable)

[page 42]
Example 36 :
The wage period of an employee runs from the 16
th
day of each month
to the 15
th
day of the following month. Taking the wage period of 16
August to 15 September as an example, the monetary cap applicable
to this employee for the records of the total number of hours worked is
calculated proportionally as follows –
$16,300 X 16 days ÷ 31 days (i.e. the ratio that the period 16 to 31
August bears to August) + $16,300 X 15 days ÷ 30 days (i.e. the ratio
that the period 1 to 15 September bears to September) = $16,562.9
➡ If wages payable in respect of the above wage period are at $16,562.9
or above, the wage and employment records are not required to
include the total number of hours worked in that wage period.
Note :
● According to EO, every employer must at all times keep a record
setting out the wage and employment history of each employee
covering the period of his employment during the preceding
12 months, including the total number of hours worked in each
wage period (where applicable). The wage and employment
records must be kept at the employer’s place of business or at
the place where the employee is employed, and they should also
be kept for a period of another six months after the employee
ceases to be employed. An employer who fails to keep the
wage and employment records is liable to prosecution and,
upon conviction, to a fine of $10,000. For information on the
main provisions of EO, please refer to A Concise Guide to the
Employment Ordinance.
● Employers and employees should keep proper records in
relation to attendance, leave and wages, etc. to safeguard their
respective rights and benefits and help avoid unnecessary
disputes.
5 Employer to keep records of the total number of hours worked by employee (where applicable)

[page 43]
A
Appendix 1 Exemption of specified student interns
and work experience students
🔹 SMW does not apply to specified student interns as well as work
experience students during a period of exempt student employment.
Specified student interns
🔹 A specified student intern is :
📌 a student undergoing a period of work arranged or endorsed by
a local education institution specified in Schedule 1 to MWO,
and the work is a compulsory or elective component of the
requirements of a full-time accredited programme being provided
by the institution to the student; or
📌 a student resident in Hong Kong and undergoing a period of
work arranged or endorsed by an institution, and the work is
a compulsory or elective component of the requirements of
a full-time education programme for a non-local academic
qualification at degree or higher level being provided by the
institution to the student.

[page 44]
B
Work experience students during
a period of exempt student employment
🔹 A work experience student is :
📌 a student who is enrolled in a full-time accredited programme
provided by a local education institution specified in Schedule
1 to MWO; or
📌 a student who is resident in Hong Kong and enrolled in a full-time
education programme for a non-local academic qualification
at degree or higher level
and is under the age of 26 years at the beginning of employment.
The work experience student may agree with the employer to have a
continuous period of up to 59 days as exempt student employment if :
(a) the student has not commenced another exempt student employment
period within the same calendar year (whether under the employment
of the same employer or not) (Example 37); and
(b) the student has made a statutory declaration verifying the fact in (a)
above and provided the declaration (or copy) to the employer.
Appendix 1 Exemption of specified student interns and work experience students

[page 45]
Example 37 :
A work experience student is employed from 1 July and agrees with the
employer on a period of exempt student employment up to 28 August of
the same year (i.e. a continuous period of 59 days).
➡ There can only be one period of exempt student employment which
commences in the same calendar year
. In this example, in case
the work experience student is having a period of exempt student
employment of less than 59 days under one contract of employment,
the remaining days are not allowed to be carried forward to another
contract of employment for the purpose of exemption. As such, the
work experience student cannot commence another exempt student
employment period in that calendar year, regardless of whether
the employment is with the same employer or not. In addition, the
counting of a continuous period of up to 59 days as exempt student
employment is based on calendar days and not working days.
31 A calendar year runs from 1 January to 31 December.
Appendix 1 Exemption of specified student interns and work experience students

[page 46]
Local education institutions specified in Schedule 1 to MWO
1 The Education University of Hong Kong
2 University of Hong Kong
3 The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
4 The Chinese University of Hong Kong
5 Hong Kong Baptist University
6 City University of Hong Kong
7 The Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts
8 The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
9 Hong Kong Metropolitan University
10 Lingnan University
11 Approved post secondary colleges registered under the Post
Secondary Colleges Ordinance (Cap. 320)
12 Bodies established under the Vocational Training Council
Ordinance (Cap. 1130)
13 Schools registered or provisionally registered under the
Education Ordinance (Cap. 279)
32 For information on whether a school is registered or provisionally registered under the
Education Ordinance, please make use of the School Search Function available at the
homepage of the Education Bureau (www.edb.gov.hk). For exemption from SMW, the
programme, if provided by a school registered or provisionally registered under the
Education Ordinance, should be at post-secondary level. The Information Portal for
Accredited Post-secondary Programmes of the Education Bureau (www.ipass.gov.hk)
provides information on full-time locally-accredited post-secondary programmes.
Appendix 1 Exemption of specified student interns and work experience students

[page 47]
Note :
● The Labour Department has published a booklet on Statutory Minimum
Wage : Notes for Student Employees and Employers on the details of
the exemption.
● Unless otherwise specified, MWO applies to every employee, his
employer and the contract of employment under which he is engaged.
However, MWO does not apply to interns/students with no employment
relationship with the host organisation or company.
● Since internships undertaken by work experience students are
not necessarily curriculum-related or arranged/endorsed by the
institutions they are studying, MWO sets out the above restrictions
on age, duration of exempt student employment and that the student
may commence a period of exempt student employment at most
once in a calendar year. These restrictions do not apply to specified
student interns whose internships must be arranged/endorsed by
the institutions they are studying and form a compulsory/elective
component of their programmes.
● The exemption from SMW does not apply if a work experience student
has not agreed with the employer to treat a certain period as a period
of exempt student employment.
Appendix 1 Exemption of specified student interns and work experience students

[page 48]
Appendix 2 Enquiries
24-hour Enquiry Hotline: 2717 1771 (handled by “1823”)
Enquiry in person to offices of the Labour Relations
Division of the Labour Department:
www.labour.gov.hk/eng/tele/lr1.htm
Labour Department’s Homepage : www.labour.gov.hk