[page 2]
Foreword
This booklet sets out the major provisions of the Employment
Ordinance (Cap. 57) on wage and employment record keeping,
and provides sample and prescribed forms for employers’
reference and deployment. Employees may also use these
forms to keep their wages and employment records.
Employers can compile their own wage and employment records
based on the requirements of the Employment Ordinance. They
can also make reference to the sample forms at Appendices 1-5
of Chapter IV. Under the Employment Ordinance, employers are
required to use a prescribed form (see Appendix 6 of Chapter
IV) to record the maternity leave taken by and maternity leave
pay given to their female employees.
For more detailed information about the statutory entitlements
mentioned in the booklet, please refer to the Employment
Ordinance or the publication “A Concise Guide to the
Employment Ordinance” issued by the Labour Department.
The Ordinance and the Guide are available on the Internet at:
Department of Justice
Hong Kong e-Legislation:
www.elegislation.gov.hk
Labour Department
A Concise Guide to the Employment Ordinance:
www.labour.gov.hk/eng/public/ConciseGuide.htm
This booklet is also uploaded to the following website:
www.labour.gov.hk/eng/public/wcp/KeepRecord.pdf

[page 3]
I
Obligations of
Employers under
the Employment
Ordinance
Table of Contents
I. Obligations of Employers under the 3
Employment Ordinance
II. Bene/f_its of Keeping Wage and 8
Employment Records
III. Points-to-Note on Wage and Employment 11
Record Keeping
IV. Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records 15
Appendix 1: Sample Form for Record on 17
Wage and Total Number of
Hours Worked
Appendix 2: Sample Form for 19
Statutory Holiday Record
Appendix 3: Sample Form for 22
Paid Sickness Days Record
Appendix 4: Sample Form for 26
Annual Leave Record
Appendix 5: Sample Form for 30
Paternity Leave Record
Appendix 6: Prescribed Form for 34
Maternity Leave Record
Page

[page 4]
5Obligations of Employers under the Employment Ordinance
2. In addition to the above, an employer also has to keep the
following records for an employee:
• Total number of hours worked : If the Statutory Minimum
Wage (SMW) applies to the employee (Note 1) , and wages
payable to the employee in respect of that wage period are
less than the amount speciﬁed in the Ninth Schedule of
the Employment Ordinance (Note 2).
• Documentary proof for a student intern (Note 3) : If the
employee is a student intern under the Minimum Wage
Ordinance, the employer has to keep a document (or a copy)
issued by an institution showing that the period of work is
arranged or endorsed by the institution in connection with
either an accredited programme or a non-local programme
being provided by the institution to the employee.
Note 1: SMW applies to all employees, whether they are full-time, part-time or casual
employees, and regardless of whether or not they are employed under a
continuous contract as de/f_ined in the Employment Ordinance, with the exceptions
of (1) persons to whom the Employment Ordinance does not apply; (2) live-in
domestic helper; and (3) student interns as well as work experience students
during a period of exempt student employment. For information on the coverage
and details of SMW, please refer to the booklets and lea/f_lets published by the
Labour Department.
Note 2: De/f_inition of wages in the monetary cap as speci/f_ied in the Ninth Schedule of the
Employment Ordinance is the same as that in the Minimum Wage Ordinance.
Note 3: A student intern is (1) a student undergoing a period of work arranged or endorsed
by a local education institution speci/f_ied in Schedule 1 to the Minimum Wage
Ordinance, and the work is compulsory or elective component of the requirements
of a full-time accredited programme being provided by the institution to the
student or (2) a student resident in Hong Kong and undergoing a period of work
arranged or endorsed by an institution, and the work is a compulsory or elective
component of the requirements of a full-time education programme for a non-local
academic quali/f_ication at degree level or higher being provided by the institution
to the student.
4 Obligations of Employers under the Employment Ordinance
I. Obligations of Employers under
the Employment Ordinance
1. Under section 49A of the Employment Ordinance, an
employer must keep a record which sets out the wage
and employment history of each employee covering the
period of his employment during the preceding 12 months
(irrespective of whether the employee is employed as “fulltime”, “part-time”, “permanent”, “casual”, or “substitute”
worker). The record should contain the following information
of each employee:
• name and identity card number;
• date of commencement of employment;
• job title;
• wages paid in respect of each wage period;
• wage period;
• periods of annual leave, sick leave, maternity leave, paternity
leave and statutory holidays entitled and taken, together with
details of payments made in respect of such periods;
• amount of any end of year payment and the period to which
it relates (if applicable);
• period of notice required for termination of contract; and
• date of termination of employment (if applicable).

[page 5]
7Obligations of Employers under the Employment Ordinance
3. The wage record must be kept at the employer’s place of
business or at the place where the employee is employed,
and they should be kept for a period of another 6 months
after the employee ceases to be employed.
Under section 63D of the Employment Ordinance, an employer
who fails to keep the wage and employment record is liable to
prosecution and, upon conviction, to a ﬁne of $10,000.
Under section 72 of the Employment Ordinance, ofﬁcers of the
Labour Department may inspect the wage and employment
record, inquire any person or seize anything which may
appear to be evidence of an offence under the Ordinance.
Any person who fails to comply with the requirements is liable
to prosecution and, upon conviction, to a ﬁne of $100,000
and to imprisonment for one year. Employers are advised to
keep employment records at the place of employment so that
they will be available for inspection by ofﬁcers of the Labour
Department.
6 Obligations of Employers under the Employment Ordinance
• Documentary proof for a work experience student
during a period of exempt student employment (Note 4): If
the employee is a work experience student under the Minimum
Wage Ordinance, the employer has to keep the statutory
declaration (or a copy) provided by the employee verifying the
fact that he has not granted another period of exempt student
employment within the same calendar year and a document
(or a copy) issued by an institution showing that the employee
is at the commencement of the employment enrolled in either
an accredited programme or a non-local programme being
provided by the institution.
Note 4: A work experience student is a student (1) who is enrolled in a full-time accredited
programme provided by a local education institution speci/f_ied in Schedule 1 to
the Minimum Wage Ordinance; or (2) who is resident in Hong Kong and enrolled
in a full-time education programme for a non-local academic quali/f_ication at
degree level or higher, and the student is under 26 years old at the beginning of
the employment. The work experience student may agree with the employer to
have a continuous period of up to 59 days as exempt student employment period
if: (a) the student has not commenced another exempt student employment
period within the same calendar year; and (b) the student has made a statutory
declaration verifying the fact in (a) and provided the above statutory declaration
(or copy) to the employer.

[page 6]
9Bene/f_its of Keeping Wage and Employment Records
II. Beneﬁts of Keeping Wage and
Employment Records
1. Protecting the rights and beneﬁts of both employers and
employees and reducing unnecessary labour disputes
Keeping accurate, clear and complete wage and employment
records, such as wage receipts, working hours records, payroll
records, dismissal letters, resignation letters, bank statements,
Mandatory Provident Fund contribution records, employment
contracts, attendance records as well as overtime work and leave
records helps protect the rights and beneﬁts of both employers
and employees and reduces unnecessary labour disputes.
Each time wages are paid, employers are advised to provide
an employee with a statement setting out particulars of the
wages for the wage period. They should cover: (a) particulars of
the amount earned – including particulars of basic wages, and
where appropriate, commission, overtime pay, allowances, or
bonuses, etc.; and (b) particulars of any deductions made from
the wages and the reasons for the deductions.
2. Helping employers to calculate employees’ statutory
beneﬁts accurately
Under the Employment Ordinance, employers have to calculate
employees’ statutory entitlements, such as holiday pay, annual
leave pay, sickness allowance, maternity leave pay, paternity
leave pay, end of year payment and payment in lieu of notice, on
the basis of the average daily or monthly wages earned by the
employee in the past 12 months (or a shorter period if employed
for less than 12 months).
Beneﬁts of
Keeping Wage
and Employment
Records
II

[page 7]
III
Points-to-Note
on Wage and
Employment
Record Keeping
10 Bene/f_its of Keeping Wage and Employment Records
3. Helping employers to formulate long-term human resource
policy and planning
Some wage and employment records such as overtime record,
training record, performance appraisal record, etc., provide useful
information for human resource planning which is conducive to
the long-term development of the organisation.
In calculating the average daily or monthly wages, if the
employee was not paid wages or full wages under the
following situations, the periods together with the wages paid
to the employee for such periods shall be excluded:
(i) The employee’s taking any of the following leave:
• leave provided under the Employment Ordinance (i.e.
rest day, statutory holiday, annual leave, maternity leave,
paternity leave or sickness day);
• sick leave due to work injuries as provided under the
Employees’ Compensation Ordinance; or
• leave taken with the agreement of the employer.
(ii) The employee not being provided by the employer with
work on any normal working day.
Accurate, detailed and complete records
of wages, attendance and leave taken are
crucial to the calculations of the relevant
statutory entitlements.

[page 8]
13Points-to-Note on Wage and Employment Record Keeping
Regular Review
• To ensure its effectiveness, employers should regularly review
the record keeping system and particularly take note of the
following:
» Is the information collected useful and essential?
» Is adequate training provided to staff who are required to
handle the records?
» Is there any room for improvement in the existing record
keeping system?
12 Points-to-Note on Wage and Employment Record Keeping
III. Points-to-Note on Wage and
Employment Record Keeping
Apart from the requirements of the Employment Ordinance,
the following are some points that employers should take note
of in keeping wage and employment records:
Conﬁdentiality
• Employers should keep the personal and employment records of
employees in safe custody and should not disclose the records
to outside parties.
Consistency
• The record keeping system should be consistent, accurate and
reliable.
Flexibility
• The record keeping system can be ﬂexibly adapted to meet the
changing needs and developments of the organisation.

[page 9]
Forms for
Keeping Wage
and Employment
Records
IV
14 Points-to-Note on Wage and Employment Record Keeping
III
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
• Employers should also observe the requirements of the Personal
Data (Privacy) Ordinance and the Code of Practice on Human
Resource Management issued by the Ofﬁce of the Privacy
Commissioner for Personal Data.
For more detailed information about the above-mentioned
Ordinance and Code, please visit the homepage.
www.pcpd.org.hk
of the Ofﬁce or call its hotline
2827 2827

[page 10]
17Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Note 1: Under section 49A of the Employment Ordinance, the employer has to keep the
total number of hours worked by an employee in that wage period if the statutory
minimum wage applies to the employee and wages payable in respect of that
wage period are less than the amount speci/f_ied in the Ninth Schedule of the
Employment Ordinance.
Note 2: Under section 23 of the Employment Ordinance, wages shall become due on the
expiry of the last day of the wage period. An employer must pay wages to an
employee as soon as practicable but in any case not later than seven days after
the end of the wage period.
Note 3: Please specify: (a) any payments made to the employee in respect of statutory
holidays; and (b) particulars of the wages paid to the employee, including particulars
of the amount earned by the employee (including basic wages, commission, various
allowances and overtime pay, etc.) and particulars of the deductions made from
the wages of the employee and the reasons for the deductions. These particulars
are necessary for calculating statutory entitlements of the employee, such as
holiday pay, annual leave pay, sickness allowance, maternity leave pay, paternity
leave pay, end of year payment and payment in lieu of notice. For details about
these entitlements, please refer to the Employment Ordinance or the publication “A
Concise Guide to the Employment Ordinance” issued by the Labour Department.
Appendix 1:
Sample Form for Record on Wage and
Total Number of Hours Worked
Name of employee:
Wage
period
Total number of
hours worked
(Note 1)
Amount
paid
Payment
date
(Note 2)
Details of
calculation
(Note 3)
16 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
(1) Records relating to Wage and
Total Working Hours
Under section 49A of the Employment Ordinance, an
employer must keep a record which sets out the wage and
the total number of hours worked (Note 1) of
each employee covering the period of his
employment during the preceding
12 months.
Records relating
to Wage and
Total Working Hours

[page 11]
19Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Appendix 2:
Sample Form for Statutory Holiday Record
Name of employee: Year:
Statutory holiday The date on which the holiday
is taken by the employee (Note 1)
Note 1: Please /f_ill in the date of statutory holiday or, where appropriate, the date of
alternative holiday or substituted holiday taken by the employee. Payment made
for the holiday may be recorded in the wage record. Please refer to the Sample
Form for Record on Wage and Total Number of Hours Worked.
Note 2: At the option of the employer. Please delete whichever is inappropriate.
The ﬁrst day of January
Lunar New Year’s Day
The second day of Lunar New Year
The third day of Lunar New Year
Ching Ming Festival
Labour Day (1 May)
Tuen Ng Festival
HKSAR Establishment Day (1 July)
The day following the
Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival
Chung Yeung Festival
National Day (1 October)
Chinese Winter Solstice Festival /
Christmas Day (Note 2)
18 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
(2) Records relating to Statutory
Holidays
• Under section 49A of the Employment Ordinance, an
employer must keep a record which sets out the wage
and employment history of each employee covering the
period of his employment during the preceding 12 months,
including the statutory holidays to which the employee
is entitled and the statutory holidays that he has taken,
together with details of payments made in respect of such
statutory holidays.
• Please refer to Appendix 2 for a sample form for statutory
holiday record.
Main Points about Statutory Holidays
• All employees, irrespective of their length of service, should be granted
statutory holidays. After an employee has been employed under a
continuous contract (Note) for not less than 3 months immediately preceding
a statutory holiday, he is entitled to holiday pay. Holiday pay should be paid
to the employee not later than the day on which he is next paid wages after
the statutory holiday.
• The daily rate of holiday pay is a sum equivalent to the average daily wages
earned by an employee in the past 12 months preceding the day of the
statutory holiday or the ﬁrst day of the statutory holidays (or a shorter
period if employed for less than 12 months). In calculating the average
daily wages, if the employee was not paid wages or full wages under the
situations mentioned in point 2 of Chapter II, the periods together with the
sum paid to the employee for such periods shall be excluded.
• If an employee is required to work on a statutory holiday, the employer
should give 48 hours’ prior notice to the employee, and must arrange an
alternative holiday within 60 days before or after the statutory holiday. If
both parties agree, the employee may take any day within 30 days of the
statutory or alternative holiday as a substituted holiday.
Note: An employee who has been employed continuously by the same employer for
four weeks or more with at least 18 hours worked in each week is regarded as
being employed under a continuous contract.

[page 12]
21Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Main Points about Sickness Allowance
• An employee employed under a continuous contract can accumulate
paid sickness days at the rate of 2 paid sickness days for each
completed month during the ﬁrst 12 months, and 4 paid sickness days
thereafter. Paid sickness days can be accumulated throughout the
whole employment period, but shall not exceed 120 days at any one
time.
• An employee is eligible for sickness allowance if: (a) the sick leave taken
is not less than 4 consecutive days; (b) the sick leave is supported
by an appropriate medical certiﬁcate (Note); and (c) the employee has
accumulated sufﬁcient number of paid sickness days.
• The daily rate of sickness allowance is a sum equivalent to four-ﬁfths of
the average daily wages earned by an employee in the past 12 months
preceding the sickness day or the ﬁrst sickness day (or a shorter period
if employed for less than 12 months). In calculating the average daily
wages, if the employee was not paid wages or full wages under the
situations mentioned in point 2 of Chapter II, the periods together with
the sum paid to the employee for such periods shall be excluded.
• If a female employee is absent from work to attend medical examination
in relation to her pregnancy check-ups, post conﬁnement medical
treatment, or due to miscarriage, any day on which she is absent shall
be counted as a sickness day. She will be entitled to sickness allowance
for each day of the sick leave provided she has accumulated sufﬁcient
number of paid sickness days and can produce an appropriate medical
certiﬁcate (regarding an employee’s medical examination in relation to
her pregnancy, may also be supported by a certiﬁcate of attendance
apart from a medical certiﬁcate) (Note).
Note: The medical certi/f_icate should specify the number of days on which, and the nature of
the sickness or injury on account of which, the employee is un/f_it for work. Regarding an
employee’s medical examination in relation to her pregnancy, may also be supported
by a certi/f_icate of attendance issued by a registered medical practitioner, a registered
Chinese medicine practitioner, a registered midwife or a registered nurse, apart
from a medical certi/f_icate. The certi/f_icate of attendance should state the employee’s
attendance for a medical examination in relation to her pregnancy and the relevant
date. Certi/f_icate of attendance is not applicable to a medical examination in relation to
pregnancy conducted before 11 December 2020.
20 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
(3) Records relating to Sick Leave
Under section 37 of the Employment Ordinance:
• For each employee, an employer must keep a record of:
(a) his date of commencement and termination of employment;
(b) all paid sickness days accumulated by him under section 33
of the Employment Ordinance, including the number of paid
sickness days accumulated in Categories 1 and 2;
(c) all paid sickness days taken by him under section 33 of the
Employment Ordinance and the paid sickness days deducted
from Categories 1 and 2; and
(d) all sickness allowance paid to him and the sickness days in
respect of which sickness allowance was paid.
• The above record has to be signed by the employee within 7
days of his return to work from paid sick leave, and the employee
has the right to inspect the record.
• Please refer to Appendix 3 for a sample form for keeping paid
sickness days record.

[page 13]
23Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Date of termination
of employment:
Amount of
sickness
allowance
Received
by
Category 2 (Note)
(Maximum accumulation: 84 days)
Total
accumulation
Sickness days taken
No. of days
Balance
Date
out-patient or in-patient in a hospital should be produced; upon the employer’s request, a brief record of
the investigation carried out and the treatment prescribed by the issuer of the medical certi/f_icate should
also be produced. Regarding an employee’s medical examination in relation to her pregnancy, may also
produce a certi/f_icate of attendance issued by a registered medical practitioner, a registered Chinese
medicine practitioner, a registered midwife or a registered nurse who conducts the examination for the
employee as an out-patient or in-patient in a hospital, apart from a medical certi/f_icate**.
* The medical certi/f_icate should specify the number of days on which, and the nature of the sickness or
injury on account of which, the employee is un/f_it for work.
**The certi/f_icate of attendance should state the employee’s attendance for a medical examination in relation
to her pregnancy and the relevant date. Certi/f_icate of attendance is not applicable to a medical examination
in relation to pregnancy conducted before 11 December 2020.
22 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Name of employee: Date of commencement
of employment:
Days
accumulated
in each month
under the
Employment
Ordinance
Category 1 (Note)
(Maximum accumulation: 36 days)
Total
accumulation
Sickness days taken
No. of days
Balance
Date
Date
Year Month Day
Appendix 3:
Sample Form for Paid Sickness Days Record
Paid sickness days are divided into two categories - paid sickness days can /f_irst be
accumulated up to 36 days in Category 1 and then 84 days in Category 2. The conditions for
taking paid sickness day(s) are summarised below:
Category 1: Supported by a medical certi/f_icate* issued by a registered medical practitioner, a registered
Chinese medicine practitioner or a registered dentist. Regarding an employee’s medical
examination in relation to her pregnancy, may also be supported by a certi/f_icate of attendance
issued by a registered medical practitioner, a registered Chinese medicine practitioner, a
registered midwife or a registered nurse, apart from a medical certi/f_icate**.
Category 2: Sickness days taken exceeds the number of paid sickness days remaining in Category 1. If
required by the employer, a medical certi/f_icate* issued by a registered medical practitioner,
registered Chinese medicine practitioner or registered dentist attending the employee as an
out-patient or in-patient in a hospital should be produced; upon the employer’s request, a brief record of
the investigation carried out and the treatment prescribed by the issuer of the medical certi/f_icate should
also be produced. Regarding an employee’s medical examination in relation to her pregnancy, may also
produce a certi/f_icate of attendance issued by a registered medical practitioner, a registered Chinese
medicine practitioner, a registered midwife or a registered nurse who conducts the examination for the
employee as an out-patient or in-patient in a hospital, apart from a medical certi/f_icate**.
Note :

[page 14]
25Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Main Points about Annual Leave
• Employees employed under a continuous contract for not less
than 12 months are entitled to paid annual leave. The number of
days of paid annual leave increases progressively from 7 to 14
depending on the employee’s length of service.
• The daily rate of annual leave is a sum equivalent to the average
daily wages earned by an employee in the past 12 months
preceding the day of the annual leave or the ﬁrst day of the
annual leave (or a shorter period if employed for less than 12
months). In calculating the average daily wages, if the employee
was not paid wages or full wages under the situations mentioned
in point 2 of Chapter II, the periods together with the sum paid to
the employee for such periods shall be excluded.
• Any rest day or statutory holiday falling within a period of annual
leave will be counted as annual leave and another rest day or
holiday must be appointed by the employer.
24 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
(4) Records relating to
Annual Leave
• Under section 41G of the Employment Ordinance, an
employer must keep a record of:
(a) the date of commencement and termination of the employment
of each employee;
(b) the date of commencement and termination of all periods of
annual leave taken by each employee;
(c) the date of commencement and termination of all periods of
closure of the employer’s business or part of the business
for the purpose of granting any annual leave to any of his
employees; and
(d) all annual leave pay received by each employee.
• Please refer to Appendix 4 for a sample form for annual
leave record.

[page 15]
27Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Period of annual
leave taken (Note 2) Annual leave pay Date paid
Note 2: Where appropriate, all periods of closure of the employer’s business or part of the
business for the purpose of granting any annual leave to any of his employees
should be stated.
Date of termination
of employment:
26 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Days of annual leave entitled under
the Employment Ordinance
Leave year/Common
leave year (Note 1)
Appendix 4:
Sample Form for Annual Leave Record
Note 1: A leave year means any period of 12 months commencing on the day on which
his employment commenced and an anniversary of such day. An employer may
elect any period of 12 consecutive months as the common leave year for all of
his employees. Should the employer wish to make this arrangement, he shall
give one month’s notice either to each of his employees in writing or by posting a
notice in a conspicuous place in the place of employment.
Name of employee: Date of commencement
of employment:

[page 16]
29Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Main Points about Paternity Leave
• A male employee who has been employed under a continuous
contract with a child born on or after 18 January 2019 is entitled to
5 (Note 1) days’ paternity leave for each conﬁnement of his spouse/
partner if he has given the required notiﬁcation to his employer.
• The employee may take paternity leave at any time during the
period from 4 weeks before the expected date of delivery of the
child to 14 (Note 2) weeks beginning on the actual date of delivery of
the child (in one go or on separate days).
• A male employee is entitled to paternity leave pay if he –
(a) has been employed under a continuous contract for not less
than 40 weeks immediately before the day of paternity leave;
and
(b) has provided the required document to the employer within the
following period (whichever period expires ﬁrst) –
(i) 12 months after the ﬁrst day of paternity leave taken; or
(ii) if he ceases to be employed, within 6 months after cessation
of employment.
• The daily rate of paternity leave pay is a sum equivalent to fourﬁfths of the average daily wages earned by an employee in the
past 12 months preceding the day of paternity leave (or a shorter
period if employed for less than 12 months). In calculating the
average daily wages, if the employee was not paid wages or full
wages under the situations mentioned in point 2 of Chapter II,
the periods together with the sum paid to the employee for such
periods shall be excluded.
Note 1: The number of paternity leave days is 3 days for each con/f_inement of the spouse/
partner of an eligible male employee if his child is born on or after 27 February
2015 but before 18 January 2019.
Note 2: If the child is born before 11 December 2020, it is up to 10 weeks beginning on
the actual date of delivery of the child.
28 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
(5) Records relating to
Paternity Leave
• Under section 49A of the Employment Ordinance, an
employer must keep a record which sets out the wage
and employment history of each employee covering the
period of his employment during the preceding 12 months,
including particulars of the period(s) of paternity leave that
the employee has taken together with details of payments
made in respect of such period(s).
• Please refer to Appendix 5 for a sample form for paternity
leave record.

[page 17]
30 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Appendix 5:
Sample Form for Paternity Leave Record
Amount of Pate rnity Leave PayDate of Paternity Leave
Name of employee: Date of commencement
of employment:
31Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Amount of Pate rnity Leave Pay Date Paid
Date of termination
of employment:

[page 18]
33Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Main Points about Maternity Leave
• A female employee is entitled to maternity leave for a continuous
period of 14 (Note) weeks if she has been employed under a
continuous contract immediately before the commencement
of maternity leave and has given notice of pregnancy and her
intention to take maternity leave to the employer.
• A female employee is eligible for maternity leave pay if:
(a) she has been employed under a continuous contract for not
less than 40 weeks immediately before the commencement
of the scheduled maternity leave;
(b) she has given notice of pregnancy and her intention to take
maternity leave to her employer, such as producing a medical
certiﬁcate that conﬁrms her pregnancy; and
(c) if so required by her employer, she has produced a medical
certiﬁcate specifying the expected date of conﬁnement.
• Maternity leave pay is calculated at four-ﬁfths of the average
daily wages earned by an employee in the past 12 months
preceding the ﬁrst day of the maternity leave (or a shorter period
if employed for less than 12 months). In calculating the average
daily wages, if the employee was not paid wages or full wages
under the situations mentioned in point 2 of Chapter II, the
periods together with the sum paid to the employee for such
periods shall be excluded.
Note: Eligible employees whose con/f_inement occurs before 11 December 2020 are
entitled to a continuous period of 10 weeks’ maternity leave.
32 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
(6) Records relating to
Maternity Leave
• Under section 15B of the Employment Ordinance, an
employer who employs female employees must maintain,
in a form prescribed by the Commissioner for Labour, a
record of:
(a) the maternity leave taken by the employees; and
(b) the maternity leave pay given to the employees.
• Please refer to Appendix 6 for a prescribed form made
under the Employment Ordinance for recording maternity
leave and maternity leave pay.

[page 19]
35Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Leave Taken
Post-Conﬁnement Amount
Paid Date Paid
Average
Wage
Month/Day
Payment
34 Forms for Keeping Wage and Employment Records
Appendix 6:
Employment Ordinance (Chapter 57)
Prescribed Form under Section 15B and Section 49(2)
Maternity Leave Record
Date of Commencement
of Employment
Leave Taken
Pre-Conﬁnement
Name

[page 20]
Enquiries
Enquiry Hotline:
2717 1771
(the hotline is handled by “1823”)
Homepage Address
www.labour.gov.hk
Enquiry in person to Ofﬁces of the Labour Relations Division:
https://www.labour.gov.hk/eng/tele/lr1.htm

[page 21]
December 2020
www.labour.gov.hk